# 12.01 셀 23 정기 미팅 - UC23 플래닝

UC23 Sending Emails

## 23.1 Preconditions

The event requiring an email alert has occurred (UC14)

## 23.2 Main Flow

Any patient can view their email entry [S1]. An email alert is sent out to the iTrust user in the event of a changed password or reset [S2], status change in appointment (both HCP and Ophthalmologist) or surgery request [S3], account lockout [S4], or status change in Personal Representatives [S5]. And among HCPs and patients can communicate by email [S6]. All emails are tracked within the iTrust2 application and sent to the receiver. All events are logged.

## 23.3 Sub-flows

- **[S1] The patient can view emails that have been sent to them.**
- [S2] The user has successfully changed his/her password (UC11, S1/S2). An email informing the user of the password change is sent to the user including the MID but not the password.
- [S3] The status of an appointment request has been changed by the HCP or Ophthalmologist involved in the request (UC6, S3, **UC20, S3**). Also, the status of an ophthalmology surgery has been changed by the HCP involved in the request (**UC22, S2, S4**). An email informing the patient of their appointment status is sent.
- [S4] A user account has been locked out, either temporarily or permanently, due to too many failed logins. An email informing the user of their lockout is sent.
- [S5] The status of a Personal Representative has been changed by the other patient or HCP involved in the request (**UC16, S2, S3, S4**). An email informing the patient of their Personal Representative status is sent.
- [S6] **~~An HCP~~ Any user can communicate with any ~~patient~~ other one by email**. ~~However, the patient can only communicate with their Personal Representative by email. If a patient tries to communicate with other patients who are not their Personal Representative, an error message will be shown [E1]. If a patient tries to communicate with HCPs, an error message will be shown [E2]. If an HCP tries to communicate with other HCPs, an error message will be shown [E3].~~ If the destination user does not exist, an error message will be shown [E4].

## 23.4 Alternative Flows

- ~~[E1] The patient tries to communicate with other patients who are not their Personal Representative. An error is thrown stating "You can only communicate with your Personal Representative".~~
- ~~[E2] The patient tries to communicate with HCPs. An error is thrown stating "You can not send emails to HCP".~~
- ~~[E3] The HCP tries to communicate with other HCPs. An error is thrown stating "You can not send emails to HCP".~~
- [E4] The destination user does not exist. An error is displayed "Unable to send email because no user found with provided username".

## 23.5 Logging

| Transaction Code | Verbose Description                                          | Primary MID    | Secondary MID | Transaction Type | Patient Viewable |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------- | ------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| 2301             | Patient views his email entry                                | Logged-in user | None          | View             | Yes              |
| 2302             | PW Change Email notification sent                            | Logged-in user | None          | Create           | Yes              |
| 2303             | AppointmentRequest or SurgeryRequest Email notification sent | Logged-in user | None          | Create           | Yes              |
| 2304             | Account Lockout Email notification sent                      | Logged-in user | None          | Create           | Yes              |
| 2305             | Personal Representative Email notification sent              | Logged-in user | None          | Create           | Yes              |
| 2306             | User sends email to another user                             | Logged-in user | Object user   | Create           | Yes              |

## 23.6 Data Format

```java
//package edu.ncsu.csc.itrust2.models;
public Email(String sender, User receiver, String subject, String messageBody) {
    this.sender = sender;
    this.receiver = receiver;
    this.subject = subject;
    this.messageBody = messageBody;
}
```

Email 포함 요소:

- sender: 보내는 이
- receiver: 받는 이(FE에선  User말고 이름으로 입력받기)
- subject: 제목
- messageBody: 내용
